EventGrid 4.0 migration guide (#19729)
Azure/azure-sdk-for-java: sdk/eventgrid/azure-messaging-eventgrid/migration-guide.md

This guide is intended to assist in the migration to `azure-messaging-eventgrid` from `microsoft-azure-eventgrid`. It will focus on side-by-side comparisons for similar operations between the two packages.

We assume that you are familiar with the old SDK `microsoft-azure-eventgrid`. If not, please refer to the new SDK README for [azure-messaging-eventgrid][README] directly rather than this migration guide.

## Table of contents

- [Guide for migrating to `azure-messaging-eventgrid` from `microsoft-azure-eventgrid`](#guide-for-migrating-to-azure-messaging-eventgrid-from-microsoft-azure-eventgrid)
    - [Table of contents](#table-of-contents)
    - [Migration benefits](#migration-benefits)
        - [Cross Service SDK improvements](#cross-service-sdk-improvements)
    - [Important changes](#important-changes)
        - [Group id, artifact id, and package names](#group-id-artifact-id-and-package-names)
        - [Instantiating clients](#instantiating-clients)
        - [Send events to an Event Grid Topic](#send-events-to-an-event-grid-topic)
        - [Deserialize events and data](#deserialize-events-and-data)
    - [Additional samples](#additional-samples)

> ## Migration benefits

Reviewer: Should this also highlight that the new library supports CloudEvent while the track 1 lib didn't?

Author: This part is usually high level general benefits and is not related to this SDK.
For instances, [Event Hubs migration guideline](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-java/blob/master/sdk/eventhubs/azure-messaging-eventhubs/migration-guide.md#migration-benefits), [Service Bus](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-java/blob/master/sdk/servicebus/azure-messaging-servicebus/migration-guide.md#migration-benefits), and [Key Vaule Secrets](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-java/blob/master/sdk/keyvault/azure-security-keyvault-secrets/migration_guide.md#migration-benefits)

Reviewer 2: The template has a section for new features where this can be included.

client libraries have.

There were several areas of consistent feedback expressed across the Azure client library ecosystem. The most important is that the client libraries for different Azure services have not had a consistent organization, naming, and API structure. Additionally, many developers have felt that the learning curve was difficult, and the APIs did not offer a good, approachable, and consistent onboarding story for those learning Azure or exploring a specific Azure service.

To improve the development experience across Azure services, a set of uniform [design guidelines][Guidelines] was created for all languages to drive a
consistent experience with established API patterns for all services. A set of [Java design guidelines][GuidelinesJava] was introduced to ensure that Java clients have a natural and idiomatic feel with respect to the Java ecosystem. Further details are available in the guidelines
for those interested.

### Cross Service SDK improvements

The modern Event Hubs client library also provides the ability to share in some of the cross-service improvements made to the Azure development experience, such as

> - Using the new azure-identity library to share a single authentication approach between clients.

Reviewer: I don't think Event Grid uses `azure-identity`. We only support key credential and sas credential and neither of them need azure-identity.

Author: Yes, they're in `azure-core`. I removed it since we don't use identity yet.

- A unified logging and diagnostics pipeline offering a common view of the activities across each of the client libraries.
- A unified asynchronous programming model using [Project Reactor][project-reactor].
- A unified method of creating clients via client builders to interact with Azure services.

## Important changes

### Group id, artifact id, and package names

Group ids, artifact ids, and package names for the modern Azure client libraries for Java have changed. They follow the [Java SDK naming guidelines][GuidelinesJavaDesign]. Each will have the group id `com.azure`, an artifact id following the pattern `azure-[area]-[service]`, and the root package name `com.azure.[area].[Service]`. The legacy clients have a group id `com.microsoft.azure` and their package names followed the pattern `com.microsoft. Azure.[service]`. This provides a quick and accessible means to help understand, at a glance, whether you are using modern or legacy clients.

> In EventGrid, the modern client libraries have packages and namespaces that begin with `com.azure.messaging.eventgrid` and were released starting with version 4. The legacy client libraries have package names starting with `com.microsoft.azure.eventgrid` and a version of 1.x.x or below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In EventGrid, the modern client libraries have packages and namespaces that begin with `com.azure.messaging.eventgrid` and were released starting with version `4.0.0`. The legacy client libraries have package names starting with `com.microsoft.azure.eventgrid` and a version of 1.x.x or below.
```

Reviewer: Also, please add a comment to explain why we went from 1.0.0 to 4.0.0.

Author: I updated to 4.x because the SDK might be already 4.0.1, 4.1.0, 4.1.1 when a user reads the migration guide.

#### Instantiating clients

> In v1, the `EventGridClient` was instantiated via the `EventGridClientImpl` constructor. The client contained both sync and async methods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In 1.0.0, the `EventGridClient` was instantiated via the `EventGridClientImpl` constructor. The client contained both sync and async methods.
```

Author: Similarly, changed to 1.x

The client can send only `EventGridEvent` to an EventGrid topic or domain.
```java
String endpoint = "<endpont of your event grid topic/domain that accepts EventGridEvent schema>";
TopicCredentials topicCredentials = new TopicCredentials(key);
EventGridClient client = new EventGridClientImpl(topicCredentials);
```

> In v4, the creation of the client is done through the [EventGridPublisherClientBuilder][EventGridPublisherClientBuilder]. The sync and async operations are separated to [EventGridPublisherClient] and [EventGridPublisherAsyncClient].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In 4.0.0, the creation of the client is done through the [EventGridPublisherClientBuilder][EventGridPublisherClientBuilder]. The sync and async operations are separated to [EventGridPublisherClient] and [EventGridPublisherAsyncClient].
```

```java
EventGridPublisherClient<EventGridEvent> eventGridEventClient = new EventGridPublisherClientBuilder()
    .endpoint("<endpont of your event grid topic/domain that accepts EventGridEvent schema>")
    .credential(new AzureKeyCredential("<key for the endpoint>"))
    .buildEventGridEventPublisherClient();
```
Aside from [EventGridEvent][EventGridEvent], the generic client can be instantiated to also send `CloudEvent`, or custom events to an EventGrid topic or domain.
Refer to the [README][README] for more information about sending `CloudEvent` and custom events.

> #### Send events to an Event Grid Topic

Reviewer: Other topics this Migration guide should include:
- sending custom event
- receiving custom event
- sending to domain

Author: Added "sending to domain". The old SDK doesn't have sending to custom event / cloud event so this migration guide may not need it.

```java
EventGridPublisherClient<EventGridEvent> eventGridEventClient = new EventGridPublisherClientBuilder()
    .endpoint("<endpont of your event grid topic/domain that accepts EventGridEvent schema>")
    .credential(new AzureKeyCredential("<key for the endpoint>"))
    .buildEventGridEventPublisherClient();
```
Aside from [EventGridEvent][EventGridEvent], the generic client can be instantiated to also send `CloudEvent`, or custom events to an EventGrid topic or domain.
Refer to the [README][README] for more information about sending `CloudEvent` and custom events.

#### Send events to an Event Grid Topic
In 1.x, the `publishEvent` method has the EventGrid endpoint as a parameter.
```java
List<EventGridEvent> eventsList = new ArrayList<>();
for (int i = 0; i < 5; i++) {
    eventsList.add(new EventGridEvent(
        UUID.randomUUID().toString(),
        String.format("Door%d", i),
        new ContosoItemReceivedEventData("Contoso Item SKU #1"),
        "Contoso.Items.ItemReceived",

>         DateTime.now(),

Reviewer: Setting the datetime is not shown in the 4.x sample. We should note that it defaults to current time if not set or we should show how to set it.

Author: Added a sentence for default values.

        BinaryData.fromObject(new ContosoItemReceivedEventData("Contoso Item SKU #1")),
        "2.0"
    ).setTopic("myTopic"));
}
```

#### Deserialize events and data
In 1.x, to consume events, you register the event types in the map and deserialize events.
```java
EventGridSubscriber eventGridSubscriber = new EventGridSubscriber();
eventGridSubscriber.putCustomEventMapping("Contoso.Items.ItemReceived", ContosoItemSentEventData.class);
EventGridEvent[] events = eventGridSubscriber.deserializeEventGridEvents(eventGridJsonString);
EventGridEvent event = events[0];
if (events[0].data() instanceof ContosoItemReceivedEventData){
    ContosoItemReceivedEventData eventData=(ContosoItemReceivedEventData)events[0].data();
    // do something
}
```

In 4.x, you use `EventGridEvent.fromString` convenience method to deserialize `EventGridEvent` from a Json string. Then you can use the `getData()` method
to get the event's data in a `BinaryData`, from which you can use method `toObject()` to deserialize to the data, or use `toString()` and `toBytes()`.
```java
List<EventGridEvent> eventGridEvents = EventGridEvent.fromString(eventGridJsonString);
EventGridEvent event = events.get(0);

> if ("Contoso.Items.ItemReceived".equals(event.getType()) {

Reviewer: Did track 1 support SystemEvents? If so, we should add a note here in this sample on how it would change if we are dealing with system event.

Author: Added the system event part. It's very similar to other events though.

client libraries have.

There were several areas of consistent feedback expressed across the Azure client library ecosystem. The most important is that the client libraries for different Azure services have not had a consistent organization, naming, and API structure. Additionally, many developers have felt that the learning curve was difficult, and the APIs did not offer a good, approachable, and consistent onboarding story for those learning Azure or exploring a specific Azure service.

To improve the development experience across Azure services, a set of uniform [design guidelines][Guidelines] was created for all languages to drive a
consistent experience with established API patterns for all services. A set of [Java design guidelines][GuidelinesJava] was introduced to ensure that Java clients have a natural and idiomatic feel with respect to the Java ecosystem. Further details are available in the guidelines
for those interested.

> Aside from the benefits of the new design mentioned above, the `azure-messaging-eventhub` adds new features to send `CloudEvent` and custom events to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Aside from the benefits of the new design mentioned above, the `azure-messaging-eventgrid` adds new features to send `CloudEvent` and custom events to
```
